# Class 11 API and databases

## Table of contents:
1. Links
2. JSON
3. API
4. Notes
   

## 1. Links
* [axios doc](https://axios-http.com/docs/post_example)


## 2. JSON
JavaScript Object Notation(JSON) is a file format used for data storage and web
communication. It's so popular that its even been adopted outside of Javascript!
JSON simply serializes the data into a flat string. The two main functions for 
using JSON are:
* obj=JSON.parse(json_data) - convert a JSON file into an array of objects.
* json_data=JSON.stringify(obj) -convert the array back to a JSON format.

Check out [JSON](./JSON/) for examples. 

## 3. API
An Application Programming Interface(API) is a function call used by a client
computer(usually your own computer) to communicate with server(some remote computer)
to get/compute data in the server and send back the response to the client.

###
We will be using the node package axios, to create our REST API calls. Install
the node package my running <br>```npm i axios```. 

###
A REST API is an architectural style for an application programming interface 
that uses HTTP requests(get,post,put,patch,delete) to access and use data. The
data is then communicated using JSON. Check out [rest api example](./rest_apis/)
to see a rest api with all http methods used.

### API Authentication
4 levels:
1. No authentication for api required
2. user authentication(basic) - requires the user to create an account with a password to get acces to certain API calls.
3. API Key authorization - requires you to use some key generated by the api to access certain API calls.
4. Bearer Token is the most secure in this list, and is a combination of 2 and 3(a key for a user). 

Use postman or the api calls from [https://secrets-api.appbrewery.com](https://secrets-api.appbrewery.com), to create an account, generate an api key, and generate a bearer token. Then copy over you credentials to the file [index.js](./api_authentication/index.js). Run the server and try out the different levels of authentication!

### Write your own API
If you are curious, check out [DIY_API](./DIY_API/) for how to create your own API. Its basically just running your own express server!

## 4. Notes
* check out the [secrets_project](./secrets_project/) repo for inspiration on how to do the project. 
* remote class link: [vid](https://youtu.be/mYozLEMmJrA)

  